01. IP Address

An Internet Protocol address (IP address) is a logical numeric address that is assigned to every single computer,
 printer, switch, router or any other device that is part of a TCP/IP-based network. ... 
An IP address is a logical address that is used to uniquely identify every node in the network.

02. Default Gateway
A default gateway serves as an access point or IP router that a networked computer uses to send information 
to a computer in another network or the internet. Default simply means that this gateway is used by default, 
unless an application specifies another gateway.

03. Domain name server
Domain Name Servers (DNS) are the Internet's equivalent of a phone book. They maintain a directory of
 domain names and translate them to Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. This is necessary because, 
although domain names are easy for people to remember, computers or machines, 
access websites based on IP addresses.

04. ping
A ping is a signal sent to a host that requests a response. It serves two primary purposes:
 1) to check if the host is available and 
2) to measure how long the response takes.

A ping request can be performed using a ping command, 
which is a standard command in most command line interfaces.
 Several network utilities provide a ping feature,
 which allows you to ping a server by simply entering the IP address or domain name. 
Most ping programs send multiple pings and provide and average of the pings at the end.

05.Download and Upload
Downloading means receiving data or a file from the Internet on your computer. 
Uploading means sending data or a file from your computer to somewhere on the Internet.


06.Online ups
In an online UPS, the batteries are always connected to the inverter, 
so it isn’t necessary to have a power transfer switch. When a loss of power occurs, 
the rectifier just drops out of the circuit and the batteries keep the flow of power steady and unchanged.
When the power is restored, the rectifier resumes carrying most of the load and also begins charging the batteries. 
However, the charging current may be limited to prevent the high-power rectifier from overheating the batteries 
and boiling off the electrolyte.
 The most beneficial advantage of an on-line UPS, in comparison with the other types of UPS, is its ability to 
provide an “electrical firewall” between the incoming utility power and sensitive electronic equipment.

The online UPS is ideal for environments where electrical isolation is necessary or for equipment that is very 
sensitive to power fluctuations. However, with the advances in technology, the online UPS unit was once only used 
for very large installations of 10 kW or more. Now they are available as a common consumer device, supplying 500 W or less.


What are Offline UPS?
The Offline UPS need not finds its usage often. It is required only when the main power supply fails.
 Yes, in this case, the electronic device gets power directly from the main AC power supply and not from the UPS. 
When there is any voltage surge or fluctuation in the main input power, then the offline UPS supplies power to the electronic devices. 
Therefore, these kinds of UPSs are required only during power failures and not all the time. 
One of the best examples for offline UPS is the desktop computers that we use at our homes or office. 
Those computers have a separate UPS unit and it supplies power to the computer in the case of power failures. 
The only required measure is the switching delay. An offline UPS said to work better if it’s capable of doing the switch in lesser time.

Differences
The Input: The online UPS gets the direct AC power supply to it and in turn, it uses the AC-DC inverter power
 to the electronic device. The offline UPS gets the AC power supply and gets charged but the charged AC-DC inverter 
power is utilized only when there is a power failure.







 